Okay.
So now that we have adjusted our text input component implementation to accept a value prop, we obviously
have to feed that value prop to the text input component wherever we render it.
And we are currently rendering it twice in job search form.
So here is the first location.
This is for the job role.
And so of course, I do need to provide a value prop right now.
Now, I do want to provide a dynamic reference.
And the dynamic reference that I want to provide is going to be whatever is the current value of the
role data property.
So I'm going to write value equals role.
But we know of course, that this will not work because this will provide the actual string role role.
We want a dynamic reference to whatever the role data property happens to be at that moment.
So of course, in order to do that, we need to use the V bind syntax.
So I need to put a colon in front of this value prop.
We're going to talk about the entire flow in just a second.
But we are providing the value prop to my text input component, and it's going to be whatever is the
value of the role data property on my job search form.
Let's now apply the exact same logic to this text input component down below.
We demanded in the previous lesson that we have to get a required value prop in text input.
So I have to provide it right here in the parent.
Any time I render a text input.
So we need to give a value prop.
And of course, if we wanted to provide any generic string, we could.
And we would not need to use V bind.
But since you want to bind this to the location data property down below and that is again this value
right here because that is a dynamic reference to a data property.
We need to v bind.
We can do either this syntax or the shortcut of colon value.
Okay.
And this should work.
All right.
So let's talk about the flow of how this thing works.
So we have created a connection between the value prop and whatever the role property is on job search
form.
So when job search form renders for the first time, the role that a property is an empty string, right?
So we're going to pass in an empty string for the value prop right here.
What does the text input component do with that empty string?
Well, it binds that prop a value with the value attribute on the input element.
So because we pass an empty string, the input will render with nothing inside it.
It's an empty string, which basically means blank text.
What does the user do next?
They click into the input and they type a character.
What does that do that causes the browser to trigger an input event?
We react to that v to that event by using the VON Directive, which is the shortcut of the sign.
And whenever the user types a character, we invoke the handle input method on the text input component.
So that's going to run this method down below.
And of course Vue is going to pass the event object to the method.
From that event object, we can access this event, target that value property to get whatever is the
current value that the users typed into the input.
So the very first event of course will be a single character.
What we're going to do at that point is we're not going to overwrite any local data on text input because
we no longer have any local data.
We're simply going to emit an event upwards that we call the handle input, and we're going to provide
whatever is the current value in that input field.
So in the parent in job search form, we're going to receive and react to that handle input event right
here using the same beyond syntax vision directive syntax to be more precise.
And as we talked about, what we're going to do is we're going to get that payload from the dollar sign
event, a name which of course represents this thing right here, the actual argument of the string
representing the user entry.
And then we're going to overwrite the role data property in line with the current input entry.
Now what we have done is effectively change role from an empty string to whatever character the user
has provided.
So behind the scenes, what Vue does is effectively change this role data property to be something like
this, right?
It's going to have some kind of character in it.
Now what happens then?
Well, Vue says you have changed something in my data, something called role, which means I need to
re render the template.
Well, when you read renders that template, it knows that the role data property is still attached
using v bind to the value prop on my text input component.
So because the value of role has changed and we have bound the value prop, Vue says I need to pass
the new value of role to my value prop of my text input component data has changed up here, so I need
to flow it down to my child.
So the new value of role is that single character.
It flows down to the value prop.
And what do we do with that value prop?
In my text input child component, we populate the value attribute on the input element with whatever
the user has typed.
So it's actually a more roundabout way of getting data to the child.
So just to reiterate the user, let's say types the letter A, we send the string A up to the parent
via the handle input event.
We react to that and then up here we save the value a to the role.
Property view detects that change and then passes the value of an A string to the value prop of the
child.
The child receives that string of A and it populates that prop right here because it knows to keep the
value attribute on my input element dynamic to whatever is the value of the value prop.
That value prop is now the string at a so we rewrite the value attribute and now our input reflects
that character.
So we're going to do a full journey to our parent and back down before the browser is going to re render
the A in the input field.
Of course, this all takes place in a matter of milliseconds, so it's instantaneous.
But the key takeaway here is at no point is text input actually storing that data locally.
It just sends a message up, the parent updates, the parent gets some new values, passes it down,
and we immediately see that change render in text input.
But text input is not storing any data of its own.
All right.
So let me transition to the browser and we can take a look at this in action.
So let me bring up my view.
Dev tools.
And let's see, here's our job search form.
Here's our text input.
Let's start with this one.
Right?
So notice it's prop.
A value has nothing right now.
It's an empty string and it has no local data.
So when I type a letter here like S.
Well notice that this as populates.
But of course, what happens is this text input emits the handle input event upwards.
Job search form receives that event.
It overwrites its own role data property and that change flows down back to the text input via the prop
called value that the job search form gives it right.
So first thing happens here, flow is up to here and job search form this updates and flows back down
to text input and that rule applies every time we type a character.
So software right here, here we'll do something like let's do Houston once again.
Every time we do this for triggering an event, that event in our method triggers the handle input event
upwards, the job search form, it updates its data properties.
Each one of these properties is bound using v bind to a prop and that flows down to the respective text
input component and it's value prop.
Okay.
I apologize for the endless repetition in this lesson, but it is kind of a complex idea to understand.
Hopefully this all makes sense and this allows us to remove any local data storage from text input and
also solve the data duplication problem.
There is only one place where we are storing that data and that is in our job search form.
And if our other components need that data, such as our text inputs, we're just flowing it down through
props without actually duplicating it.
So there's only a single source of truth.
All right.
This is almost like a reference to our parents data through the form of props, but it's not a duplication.
It's just a reference to that original data property on our parent.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.